Add candlestick tutorial (#916)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/tutorials/financial-candlestick-tick-data/create-candlestick-aggregates.md

* `time_bucket('1 min', time)` this function creates 1-minute buckets
* `FIRST(price, time)` this function selects the first `price` value ordered
    by the `time` column, which is the first price of the bucket, or the 
    opening price of the candlestick.
* `LAST(price, time)` this function is similar, but it selects
    the last `price` value ordered by the `time` column, which is the last
    price of the bucket, or the closing price of the candlestick.

Besides the hyperfunctions, you can see other common SQL aggregate functions
like `MIN` and `MAX`, which calculate the lowest and highest prices in the
candlestick.

<highlight type="note">
This tutorial uses the `LAST()` hyperfunction to calculate the volume within a bucket, because
our sample tick data already provides an incremental `day_volume` field which
contains the total volume for the given day with each trade. Depending on the
raw data you receive and whether you want to calculate volume in terms of
trade count or the total value of the trades, you might need to use
`COUNT(*)`, `SUM(price)`, or subtraction between the last and first values
in the bucket to get the correct result.
</highlight> 

> ## Create continuous aggregates for candlestick data

Reviewer: That will take a little rewriting, @zseta are you OK if I check out the branch and edit directly?

> ## Create continuous aggregates for candlestick data

Author: @Loquacity I'd like to get this tutorial published on or before march 15. If we can finish the rewriting until then I'm fine with doing it now.

> ## Create continuous aggregates for candlestick data

Reviewer: OK, let's just merge it as-is, we can go through later on and do some more editing to add procedures. All the tutorials need it.

policies.

### 1-minute candlestick
To create a continuous aggregate of 1-minute candlestick data, provide the
candlestick query shown above as the definition of the continuous aggregate
to create the view:

```sql
/* 1-min candlestick view*/
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW one_min_candle
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT
time_bucket('1 min', time) AS bucket,
symbol,
FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
MAX(price) AS high,
MIN(price) AS low,
LAST(price, time) AS "close",
LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume
FROM crypto_ticks
GROUP BY bucket, symbol
```

When you run this query, TimescaleDB queries 1-minute aggregate values of all
your tick data, creating the continuous aggregate and materializing the
results. But your candlestick data has only been materialized up to the
last data point. If you want the continuous aggregate to stay up to date
as new data comes in over time, you also need to add a continuous aggregate
refresh policy:

```sql
/* Refresh the continuous aggregate every hour */
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('one_min_candle',
    start_offset => INTERVAL '2 hour',
    end_offset => INTERVAL '10 sec',

>     schedule_interval => INTERVAL '2 min');

Author: Good catch! Need to fix it

```

> The continuous aggregate refreshes every hour, so every hour new 
> candlesticks are materialized, if there's new raw tick data in the hypertable.
> 
> When this job runs, it only refreshes the time period between `start_offset` 
> and `end_offset`, and ignores modifications outside of this window.
> 
> In most cases, set `end_offset` to be the same or bigger as the
> time bucket in the continuous aggregate definition. This makes sure that only full
> buckets get materialized during the  refresh process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The continuous aggregate refreshes every hour. If there is new raw tick data between `start_offset` 
and `end_offset`, it is incorporated into the aggregate. Modifications outside of this window are
ignored.

In most cases, set `end_offset` to be the same or bigger than the
time bucket in the continuous aggregate definition. This ensures that only full
buckets get materialized during the  refresh process.
```

> ### 1-hour candlestick

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### One-hour candlestick
```

> To create a 1-hour candlestick view, follow the same process as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a one-hour candlestick view, follow the same process as
```

in the previous step, except this time set the time bucket value to be one
hour in the continuous aggregate definition:

```sql

> /* 1-hour candlestick view */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW one_hour_candle
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS

> SELECT
> time_bucket('1 hour', time) AS bucket,
> symbol,
> FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
> MAX(price) AS high,
> MIN(price) AS low,
> LAST(price, time) AS "close",
> LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SELECT
  time_bucket('1 hour', time) AS bucket,
  symbol,
  FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
  MAX(price) AS high,
  MIN(price) AS low,
  LAST(price, time) AS "close",
  LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume
```

FROM crypto_ticks

> GROUP BY bucket, symbol

Author: https://github.com/timescale/docs/pull/916/commits/21d2092e39a65105ec22140a0fd577434b5aee98

```

> Add a refresh policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a refresh policy to refresh the continuous aggregate every 12 hours:
```

```sql

> /* Refresh the continuous aggregate every 12 hours */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('one_hour_candle',
    start_offset => INTERVAL '1 day',
    end_offset => INTERVAL '1 min',

>     schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 hour');

Reviewer 2: One hour or twelve hours?

```

Notice how this example uses a different refresh policy with different

> parameter values to accommodate the 1-hour time bucket in the continuous

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
parameter values to accommodate the one-hour time bucket in the continuous
```

aggregate definition. The continuous aggregate will refresh every hour, so 
every hour there will be new candlestick data materialized, if there’s
new raw tick data in the hypertable.

> ### 1-day candlestick

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### One-day candlestick
```

> Create the final view in this tutorial for 1-day candlesticks using the same
> process as above, using a 1-day time bucket size:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the final view in this tutorial for one-day candlesticks using the same
process as above, using a one-day time bucket size:
```

```sql

> /* 1-day candlestick */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW one_day_candle
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT

> time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
> symbol,
> FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
> MAX(price) AS high,
> MIN(price) AS low,
> LAST(price, time) AS "close",
> LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
  symbol,
  FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
  MAX(price) AS high,
  MIN(price) AS low,
  LAST(price, time) AS "close",
  LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume
```

FROM crypto_ticks
GROUP BY bucket, symbol
```

> Add a refresh policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a refresh policy to refresh the continuous aggregate once a day:
```

```sql

> /* Refresh the continuous aggregate every day */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('one_day_candle',

>     start_offset => INTERVAL '3 day',

Reviewer 2: 3 days?

    end_offset => INTERVAL '1 day',
    schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 day');
```

> The refresh job runs every day, and materializes two days worth of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The refresh job runs every day, and materializes two days' worth of
```

candlesticks.

## Optional: add price change (delta) column in the candlestick view
As an optional step, you can add an additional column in the continuous 
aggregate to calculate the price difference between the opening and closing 
price within the bucket.

> In general, this is how you can calculate the price difference:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, you can calculate the price difference with the formula:
```

```text
(CLOSE PRICE - OPEN PRICE) / OPEN PRICE = delta
```

Calculate delta in SQL: 
```sql
SELECT *, (LAST(price, time)-FIRST(price, time))/FIRST(price, time) AS change_pct
FROM crypto_ticks
```

> The full continuous aggregate definition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full continuous aggregate definition for a one-day candlestick with a price-change column:
```

```sql

> /* 1-day candlestick with price change column*/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW one_day_candle_delta
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT

> time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
> symbol,
> FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
> MAX(price) AS high,
> MIN(price) AS low,
> LAST(price, time) AS "close",
> LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume,
> (LAST(price, time)-FIRST(price, time))/FIRST(price, time) AS change_pct

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
  symbol,
  FIRST(price, time) AS "open",
  MAX(price) AS high,
  MIN(price) AS low,
  LAST(price, time) AS "close",
  LAST(day_volume, time) AS day_volume,
(LAST(price, time)-FIRST(price, time))/FIRST(price, time) AS change_pct
```

FROM crypto_ticks
WHERE price != 0
GROUP BY bucket, symbol
```

## Using multiple continuous aggregates

> Currently you cannot create a continuous aggregate on top of another one.
> On the other hand, we found that for most, if not all, use cases this is
> not even necessary. You can achieve the desired result and performance by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You cannot currently create a continuous aggregate on top of another continuous aggregate.
However, this is not necessary in most cases. You can get a similar result and performance by
```
